README.md, before:

# LNPopupController

<img src="./Supplements/Artwork.png" width=256/>

`LNPopupController` is a framework for presenting view controllers as popups of other view controllers, much like the Apple Music and Podcasts apps.

For SwiftUI, check out my [LNPopupUI library](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupUI).

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/LeoNatan/LNPopupController.svg)](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController/releases) [![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/LeoNatan/LNPopupController.svg)](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController/stargazers) [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController/master/LICENSE) <span class="badge-paypal"><a href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=BR68NJEJXGWL6" title="Donate to this project using PayPal"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/paypal-donate-yellow.svg?style=flat" alt="PayPal Donation Button" /></a></span>

[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/LeoNatan/LNPopupController.svg)](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController/issues) [![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/LeoNatan/LNPopupController.svg)](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController/graphs/contributors) [![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)

<img src="./Supplements/open_modern_popup.gif" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/close_modern_popup.gif" width="360"/>

<img src="./Supplements/taps.gif" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/swipes.gif" width="360"/>

See a video of the modern popup look & feel [here](https://vimeo.com/194064291) and a video of the classic popup look & feel [here](https://vimeo.com/137020302).

Once a popup bar is presented with a content view controller, the user can swipe or tap the popup at any point to present the content controller. After finishing, the user dismisses the popup by either swiping or tapping the popup close button.

The framework is intended to be very generic and work in most situations, so it is implemented as a category over `UIViewController`. Each view controller can present a popup bar, docked to a bottom view. 
For `UITabBarController` subclasses, the default dock view is the tab bar. 
For `UINavigationController` subclasses, the default dock view is the toolbar.
For other classes, the popup bar is presented at the bottom of the screen. View controller subclasses can provide their own docking views.

The framework correctly maintains the safe area insets and guide of the container controller’s view and its child controllers, as the popup bar is presented and dismissed.

The contents of the popup bar is built dynamically using the popup item objects (instances of the `LNPopupItem` class) associated with the popup content view controllers. To change the contents of the popup bar, you must therefore configure the popup items of your view controllers.

Generally, it is recommended to present the popup bar on the outermost container controller. So if you have a view controller contained in a navigation controller, which is in turn contained in a tab bar controller, it is recommended to present the popup bar on the tab bar controller.

Check the demo project for many common use cases of the framework in various scenarios. It contains examples in Swift and Objective C.

### Features

* Available for iOS 11 and above, as an Xcode framework or an SPM package
* Good citizen in modern UIKit world
* Modern Objective C syntax and great Swift interoperability
* For SwiftUI, check out my [LNPopupUI library](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupUI).

## Adding to Your Project

### Swift Package Manager

LNPopupController supports SPM versions 5.1.0 and above. To use SPM, you should use Xcode 11 to open your project. Click `File` -> `Swift Packages` -> `Add Package Dependency`, enter `https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController`. Select the version you’d like to use.

You can also manually add the package to your Package.swift file:

```swift
.package(url: "https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController.git", from: "2.9.2")
```

And the dependency in your target:

```swift
.target(name: "BestExampleApp", dependencies: ["LNPopupController"]),
```

### Carthage

Add the following to your Cartfile:

```github "LeoNatan/LNPopupController"```

Make sure you follow the Carthage integration instructions [here](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#if-youre-building-for-ios-tvos-or-watchos).

### Manual

Drag the `LNPopupController.xcodeproj` project to your project, and add `LNPopupController.framework` to **Embedded Binaries** in your project target's **General** tab. Xcode should sort everything else on its own.

### CocoaPods

CocoaPods is not supported. There are many reasons for this. Instead of CocoaPods, use Carthage. You can continue using CocoaPods for for your other dependencies and Carthage for `LNPopupController`.

## Using the Framework

### Swift

While the framework is written in Objective C, it uses modern Objective C syntax, so using the framework in Swift should be very easy and intuitive.

### Project Integration

Import the module in your project:

```swift
import LNPopupController
```

### Popup Items

A popup item should always reflect the popup information about the view controller with which it is associated. The popup item should provide a title and subtitles to display in the popup bar, when the view controller is presented as a popup content controller. In addition, the item may contain additional buttons to display on the leading and/or trailing edges of the popup bar using `leadingBarButtonItems` and `trailingBarButtonItems`.

### Managing the Popup Bar

To present the popup bar, create a content controller, update its popup item and present the popup bar.

```swift
let demoVC = DemoPopupContentViewController()
demoVC.view.backgroundColor = .red
demoVC.popupItem.title = "Hello World"
demoVC.popupItem.subtitle = "And a subtitle!"
demoVC.popupItem.progress = 0.34
	
tabBarController?.presentPopupBar(withContentViewController: demoVC, animated: true, completion: nil)
```

You can present a new content controller while the popup bar is presented and when the popup itself is open.

To open and close the popup programatically, use `openPopup(animated:completion:)` and `closePopup(animated:completion:)` respectively.

```swift
tabBarController?.openPopup(animated: true, completion: nil)
```

Alternatively, you can present the popup bar and open the popup in one animation, using `presentPopupBar(withContentViewController:openPopup:animated:completion:)`.

```swift
tabBarController?.presentPopupBar(withContentViewController: demoVC, openPopup:true, animated: true, completion: nil)
```

To dismiss the popup bar, use `dismissPopupBarAnimated:completion:`.

```swift
tabBarController?.dismissPopupBar(animated: true, completion: nil)
```

If the popup is open when dismissing the popup bar, the popup content will also be dismissed.

### Popup Container View Controllers

Any `UIViewController` subclasses can be popup container view controllers. The popup bar is attached to a bottom docking view. By default, `UITabBarController` and `UINavigationController` subclasses return their bottom bars as docking view, while other controllers return a hidden 0pt height view on the bottom of the view. In your subclass, override `bottomDockingViewForPopupBar` and `defaultFrameForBottomDockingView` and return your view and frame accordingly. **The returned view must be attached to the bottom of the view controller's view, or results are undefined.**

```swift
override var bottomDockingViewForPopupBar: UIView? {
  return myCoolBottomView
}

override var defaultFrameForBottomDockingView: CGRect {
  var bottomViewFrame = myCoolBottomView.frame
  
  if isMyCoolBottomViewHidden {
    bottomViewFrame.origin = CGPoint(x: bottomViewFrame.x, y: view.bounds.height)
  } else {
    bottomViewFrame.origin = CGPoint(x: bottomViewFrame.x, y: view.bounds.height - bottomViewFrame.height)
  }
  
  return bottomViewFrame
}
```

### Appearance and Behavior

#### Modern Look and Feel

`LNPopupController` provides two distinct style of popup look and feel, one based on modern Music app look and feel, and one based on the previous, iOS 9-style look and feel. Popup bar styles are arbitrarily labeled "prominent" for modern style popup bar and "compact" for iOS 9-style. Popup interaction styles are labeled "snap" for modern style snapping popups and "drag" for iOS 9 interactive popup interaction. Popup close buttons styles are labeled "chevron" for modern style chevron close button and "round" for iOS 9-style close buttons. For each, there is a "default" style for choosing the most suitable one for the current operating system version.

The defaults are:
* Prominent bar style
* Snap interaction style
* Chevron close button style
* No progress view style

##### Bar Style

Customizing the popup bar style is achieved by setting the popup bar's `barStyle` property.

```swift
navigationController?.popupBar.barStyle = .compact
```

##### Interaction Style

Customizing the popup interaction style is achieved by setting the popup presentation containing controller's `popupInteractionStyle` property.

```swift
navigationController?.popupInteractionStyle = .drag
```

##### Progress View Style

Customizing the popup bar progress view style is achieved by setting the popup bar's `progressViewStyle` property.

```swift
navigationController?.popupBar.progressViewStyle = .top
```

To hide the progress view, set the `progressViewStyle` property to `LNPopupBarProgressViewStyle.none`.

##### Close Button Style

Customizing the popup close button style is achieved by setting the popup content view's `popupCloseButtonStyle` property.

```swift
navigationController.popupContentView.popupCloseButtonStyle = .round
```

To hide the popup close button, set the `popupCloseButtonStyle` property to `LNPopupCloseButtonStyle.none`.

#### Popup Bar Appearance

For navigation and tab bar controller popup containers, the style of the popup bar is determined according to the bottom bar's appearance. For other container controllers, the style is the default style. For each style, title and button colors will be adjusted accordingly.

To update the popup bar appearance after updating the appearance of the bottom bar of the container controller, call the `updatePopupBarAppearance()` method.

<img src="./Supplements/modern_bar_style.gif" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/bar_style.gif" width="360"/>

Supplying long text for the title and/or subtitle will result in a scrolling text. Otherwise, the text will be centered.

<img src="./Supplements/modern_no_scroll.gif" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/scoll.gif" width="360"/>

The `hidesBottomBarWhenPushed` property is supported for navigation and tab bar controllers. When set, the popup bar will transition to the bottom of the container controller view. Setting  `isToolbarHidden = true` and calling `setToolbarHidden(_:animated:)` are also supported.

<img src="./Supplements/hidesBottomBar_TabBar.gif" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/hidesBottomBar_Toolbar.gif" width="360"/>

Status bar management of the popup content view controller is respected and applied when appropriate.

<img src="./Supplements/statusbar_style.gif" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/statusbar_hidden.gif" width="360"/>

#### Interaction Gesture Recognizer

```LNPopupContentView``` exposes access to the popup interaction gesture recognizer in the way of the `popupInteractionGestureRecognizer` property. This gesture recognizer is shared between opening the popup content, by panning the popup bar up (when the popup bar is closed), and closing the popup content, by panning the popup content view (when the popup bar is open).

When opening the popup, the system queries the `viewForPopupInteractionGestureRecognizer` property of the popup content view controller to determine to which view to add the interaction gesture recognizer. By default, the property returns the controller's root view. Override the property's getter to change this behavior.

You can implement the delegate of the interaction gesture recognizer in order to influence its behavior, such as preventing popup interaction when the user is interacting with other controls or views inside the popup content.

**Note:** If you disable the gesture recognizer after opening the popup, you must monitor the state of the popup and reenable the gesture recognizer once closed by the user or through code. Instead, consider implementing the gesture recognizer's delegate and providing custom logic to disable the interaction.

#### Full Right-to-Left Support

The framework has full right-to-left support.

<img src="./Supplements/rtl_english.png" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/rtl_hebrew.png" width="360"/>

By default, the popup bar will follow the system's user interface layout direction, but will preserve the bar button items' order.
To customize this behavior, modify the popup bar's ```semanticContentAttribute``` and ```barItemsSemanticContentAttribute``` properties.

### Customization

Customization can be achieved through the ```LNPopupBar```, ```LNPopupContentView``` and ```LNPopupCustomBarViewController``` classes.

#### Popup Bar Customization

```LNPopupBar``` exposes API to customize the default popup bar's appearance, either through `UIAppearance` API or directly on popup bar objects.

```swift
let appearanceProxy = LNPopupBar.appearance(whenContainedInInstancesOf: [UINavigationController.self])
appearanceProxy.titleTextAttributes = [.font: UIFont(name: "Chalkduster", size: 14)!, .foregroundColor: UIColor.yellow]
appearanceProxy.subtitleTextAttributes = [.font: UIFont(name: "Chalkduster", size: 12)!, .foregroundColor: UIColor.green]
appearanceProxy.backgroundStyle = .systemChromeMaterialDark
appearanceProxy.tintColor = .yellow
```

<img src="./Supplements/modern_custom.png" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/custom1.png" width="360"/>

#### Custom Popup Bars

The framework supports implementing custom popup bars.

<img src="./Supplements/custom_bar.png" width="360"/>

To implement a custom popup bar, subclass `LNPopupCustomBarViewController`.

In your `LNPopupCustomBarViewController` subclass, build your popup bar's view hierarchy and set the controller's `preferredContentSize` property with the preferred popup bar height. Override any of the `wantsDefaultTapGestureRecognizer`, `wantsDefaultPanGestureRecognizer` and/or `wantsDefaultHighlightGestureRecognizer` properties to disable the default gesture recognizers functionality in your custom popup bar.

In your subclass, implement the `popupItemDidUpdate()` method to be notified of updates to the popup content view controller's item, or when a new popup content view controller is presented (with a new popup item). You must call the `super` implementation of this method.

Finally, set the `customBarViewController` property of the popup bar object to an instance of your `LNPopupCustomBarViewController` subclass. This will change the bar style to `LNPopupBarStyle.custom`.

The included demo project includes an example custom popup bar scene.

### Accessibility

The framework supports accessibility and will honor accessibility labels, hints and values. By default, the accessibility label of the popup bar is the title and subtitle provided by the popup item.

<img src="./Supplements/default_bar_accessibility_label.png"/>

To modify the accessibility label and hint of the popup bar, set the `accessibilityLabel` and `accessibilityHint` properties of the `LNPopupItem` object of the popup content view controller.

```swift
demoVC.popupItem.accessibilityLabel = NSLocalizedString("Custom popup bar accessibility label", comment: "")
demoVC.popupItem.accessibilityHint = NSLocalizedString("Custom popup bar accessibility hint", comment: "")
```

To add accessibility labels and hints to buttons, set the `accessibilityLabel` and `accessibilityHint` properties of the `UIBarButtonItem` objects.

```swift
let upNext = UIBarButtonItem(image: UIImage(named: "next"), style: .plain, target: self, action: #selector(nextItem))
upNext.accessibilityLabel = NSLocalizedString("Up Next", comment: "")
upNext.accessibilityHint = NSLocalizedString("Double tap to show up next list", comment: "")
```
To modify the accessibility label and hint of the popup close button, set the `accessibilityLabel` and `accessibilityHint` properties of the `LNPopupCloseButton` object of the popup container view controller.

```swift
tabBarController?.popupContentView.popupCloseButton.accessibilityLabel = NSLocalizedString("Custom popup close button accessibility label", comment: "")
tabBarController?.popupContentView.popupCloseButton.accessibilityHint = NSLocalizedString("Custom popup close button accessibility hint", comment: "")
```

To modify the accessibility label and value of the popup bar progress view, set the `accessibilityProgressLabel` and `accessibilityProgressValue` properties of the `LNPopupItem` object of the popup content view controller.

```swift
demoVC.popupItem.accessibilityImageLabel = NSLocalizedString("Custom image label", comment: "")
demoVC.popupItem.accessibilityProgressLabel = NSLocalizedString("Custom accessibility progress label", comment: "")
demoVC.popupItem.accessibilityProgressValue = "\(accessibilityDateComponentsFormatter.stringFromTimeInterval(NSTimeInterval(popupItem.progress) * totalTime)!) \(NSLocalizedString("of", comment: "")) \(accessibilityDateComponentsFormatter.stringFromTimeInterval(totalTime)!)"
```

## Notes

* Non-translucent bars are not supported and can cause visual artifacts or layout glitches. Apple has many problem with such bars themselves, and supporting those is not a priority for LNPopupController.
  * Instead, either use translucent bars, or set a background color to your bar instead of setting it as not translucent or set `extendedLayoutIncludesOpaqueBars` to true for contained controllers
* Manually hiding tab bars is not supported by the framework or by Apple. **Do not hide the tab bar using `tabBar.hidden = YES`**, this will lead to undefined behavior by the framework. 

## Acknowledgements

The framework uses:
* [MarqueeLabel](https://github.com/cbpowell/MarqueeLabel) Copyright (c) 2011-2020 Charles Powell

Additionally, the demo project uses:

* [LoremIpsum](https://github.com/lukaskubanek/LoremIpsum) Copyright (c) 2013 Lukas Kubanek

Commit message:

Update documentation and modernizer GIFs.

README.md, after:

# LNPopupController

<img src="./Supplements/Artwork.png" width=256/>

`LNPopupController` is a framework for presenting view controllers as popups of other view controllers, much like the Apple Music and Podcasts apps.

For SwiftUI, check out my [LNPopupUI library](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupUI).

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/LeoNatan/LNPopupController.svg)](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController/releases) [![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/LeoNatan/LNPopupController.svg)](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController/stargazers) [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController/master/LICENSE) <span class="badge-paypal"><a href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=BR68NJEJXGWL6" title="Donate to this project using PayPal"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/paypal-donate-yellow.svg?style=flat" alt="PayPal Donation Button" /></a></span>

[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/LeoNatan/LNPopupController.svg)](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController/issues) [![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/LeoNatan/LNPopupController.svg)](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController/graphs/contributors) [![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)

<img src="./Supplements/open_modern_popup.gif" width="360"/>

See a video of the modern popup look & feel [here](https://vimeo.com/194064291) and a video of the classic popup look & feel [here](https://vimeo.com/137020302).

Once a popup bar is presented with a content view controller, the user can swipe or tap the popup bar at any point to present the popup. After finishing, the user dismisses the popup by either swiping or tapping the close button.

The framework is intended to be very generic and work in most situations, so it is implemented as a category over `UIViewController`. Each view controller can present a popup bar, docked to a bottom view. 
For `UITabBarController` subclasses, the default dock view is the tab bar. 
For `UINavigationController` subclasses, the default dock view is the toolbar.
For other classes, the popup bar is presented at the bottom of the screen. View controller subclasses can provide their own docking views.

The framework correctly maintains the safe area insets of the container controller’s view and its child controllers, as the popup bar is presented and dismissed.

The information displayed on the popup bar is provided dynamically with popup item objects (instances of the `LNPopupItem` class) associated with the popup content view controllers. To change this information, update the popup item of the view controller.

Generally, it is recommended to present the popup bar on the outermost container controller. So if you have a view controller contained in a navigation controller, which is in turn contained in a tab bar controller, it is recommended to present the popup bar on the tab bar controller.

Check the demo project for many common use cases of the framework in various scenarios. It contains examples in Swift and Objective C.

### Features

* Available for iOS 11 and above, as an Xcode framework or an SPM package
* Good citizen in modern UIKit world
* Modern Objective C syntax and great Swift interoperability
* For SwiftUI, check out my [LNPopupUI library](https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupUI).

## Adding to Your Project

### Swift Package Manager

LNPopupController supports SPM versions 5.1.0 and above. To use SPM, you should use Xcode 11 to open your project. Click `File` -> `Swift Packages` -> `Add Package Dependency`, enter `https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController`. Select the version you’d like to use.

You can also manually add the package to your Package.swift file:

```swift
.package(url: "https://github.com/LeoNatan/LNPopupController.git", from: "2.9.2")
```

And the dependency in your target:

```swift
.target(name: "BestExampleApp", dependencies: ["LNPopupController"]),
```

### Carthage

Add the following to your Cartfile:

```github "LeoNatan/LNPopupController"```

Make sure you follow the Carthage integration instructions [here](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#if-youre-building-for-ios-tvos-or-watchos).

### Manual

Drag the `LNPopupController.xcodeproj` project to your project, and add `LNPopupController.framework` to **Embedded Binaries** in your project target's **General** tab. Xcode should sort everything else on its own.

### CocoaPods

CocoaPods is not supported. There are many reasons for this. Instead of CocoaPods, use Carthage. You can continue using CocoaPods for for your other dependencies and Carthage for `LNPopupController`.

## Using the Framework

### Swift

While the framework is written in Objective C, it uses modern Objective C syntax, so using the framework in Swift should be very easy and intuitive.

### Project Integration

Import the module in your project:

```swift
import LNPopupController
```

### Popup Items

A popup item should always reflect the popup information about the view controller with which it is associated. The popup item should provide a title and subtitles to display in the popup bar, when the view controller is presented as a popup content controller. In addition, the item may contain additional buttons to display on the leading and/or trailing edges of the popup bar using `leadingBarButtonItems` and `trailingBarButtonItems`.

### Managing the Popup Bar

To present the popup bar, create a content controller, update its popup item and present the popup bar.

```swift
let demoVC = DemoPopupContentViewController()
demoVC.view.backgroundColor = .red
demoVC.popupItem.title = "Hello World"
demoVC.popupItem.subtitle = "And a subtitle!"
demoVC.popupItem.progress = 0.34
	
tabBarController?.presentPopupBar(withContentViewController: demoVC, animated: true, completion: nil)
```

You can present a new content controller while the popup bar is presented and when the popup itself is open.

To open and close the popup programatically, use `openPopup(animated:completion:)` and `closePopup(animated:completion:)` respectively.

```swift
tabBarController?.openPopup(animated: true, completion: nil)
```

Alternatively, you can present the popup bar and open the popup in one animation, using `presentPopupBar(withContentViewController:openPopup:animated:completion:)`.

```swift
tabBarController?.presentPopupBar(withContentViewController: demoVC, openPopup:true, animated: true, completion: nil)
```

To dismiss the popup bar, use `dismissPopupBarAnimated:completion:`.

```swift
tabBarController?.dismissPopupBar(animated: true, completion: nil)
```

If the popup is open when dismissing the popup bar, the popup content will also be dismissed.

### Popup Container View Controllers

Any `UIViewController` subclasses can be popup container view controllers. The popup bar is attached to a bottom docking view. By default, `UITabBarController` and `UINavigationController` subclasses return their bottom bars as docking view, while other controllers return a hidden 0pt height view on the bottom of the view. In your subclass, override `bottomDockingViewForPopupBar` and `defaultFrameForBottomDockingView` and return your view and frame accordingly. **The returned view must be attached to the bottom of the view controller's view, or results are undefined.**

```swift
override var bottomDockingViewForPopupBar: UIView? {
  return myCoolBottomView
}

override var defaultFrameForBottomDockingView: CGRect {
  var bottomViewFrame = myCoolBottomView.frame
  
  if isMyCoolBottomViewHidden {
    bottomViewFrame.origin = CGPoint(x: bottomViewFrame.x, y: view.bounds.height)
  } else {
    bottomViewFrame.origin = CGPoint(x: bottomViewFrame.x, y: view.bounds.height - bottomViewFrame.height)
  }
  
  return bottomViewFrame
}
```

### Appearance and Behavior

#### Modern Look and Feel

`LNPopupController` provides two distinct style of popup look and feel, one based on modern Music app look and feel, and one based on the previous, iOS 9-style look and feel. Popup bar styles are arbitrarily labeled "prominent" for modern style popup bar and "compact" for iOS 9-style. Popup interaction styles are labeled "snap" for modern style snapping popups and "drag" for iOS 9 interactive popup interaction. Popup close buttons styles are labeled "chevron" for modern style chevron close button and "round" for iOS 9-style close buttons. For each, there is a "default" style for choosing the most suitable one for the current operating system version.

The defaults are:
* Prominent bar style
* Snap interaction style
* Chevron close button style
* No progress view style

##### Bar Style

Customizing the popup bar style is achieved by setting the popup bar's `barStyle` property.

```swift
navigationController?.popupBar.barStyle = .compact
```

##### Interaction Style

Customizing the popup interaction style is achieved by setting the popup presentation containing controller's `popupInteractionStyle` property.

```swift
navigationController?.popupInteractionStyle = .drag
```

##### Progress View Style

Customizing the popup bar progress view style is achieved by setting the popup bar's `progressViewStyle` property.

```swift
navigationController?.popupBar.progressViewStyle = .top
```

To hide the progress view, set the `progressViewStyle` property to `LNPopupBarProgressViewStyle.none`.

##### Close Button Style

Customizing the popup close button style is achieved by setting the popup content view's `popupCloseButtonStyle` property.

```swift
navigationController.popupContentView.popupCloseButtonStyle = .round
```

To hide the popup close button, set the `popupCloseButtonStyle` property to `LNPopupCloseButtonStyle.none`.

#### Popup Bar Appearance

For navigation and tab bar container controllers, the style of the popup bar is determined according to the bottom bar's appearance. For other container controllers, a default style is used, most suitable for the current environment.

To update the popup bar appearance after updating the appearance of the bottom bar of the container controller, call the `updatePopupBarAppearance()` method.

<img src="./Supplements/modern_bar_style.gif" width="360"/>

Supplying long text for the title and/or subtitle will result in a scrolling text, if text marquee is enabled. Otherwise, the text will be truncated.

<img src="./Supplements/modern_no_scroll.gif" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/scroll.gif" width="360"/>

The `hidesBottomBarWhenPushed` property is supported for navigation and tab bar controllers. When set to `true`, the popup bar will transition to the bottom of the pushed controller's view. Setting  `isToolbarHidden = true` and calling `setToolbarHidden(_:animated:)` are also supported.

<img src="./Supplements/hidesBottomBar_TabBar.gif" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/hidesBottomBar_Toolbar.gif" width="360"/>

Status bar management of the popup content view controller is respected and applied when appropriate.

<img src="./Supplements/statusbar_style.gif" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/statusbar_hidden.gif" width="360"/>

#### Interaction Gesture Recognizer

```LNPopupContentView``` exposes access to the popup interaction gesture recognizer in the way of the `popupInteractionGestureRecognizer` property. This gesture recognizer is shared between opening the popup content, by panning the popup bar up (when the popup bar is closed), and closing the popup content, by panning the popup content view (when the popup bar is open).

When opening the popup, the system queries the `viewForPopupInteractionGestureRecognizer` property of the popup content view controller to determine to which view to add the interaction gesture recognizer. By default, the property returns the controller's root view. Override the property's getter to change this behavior.

You can implement the delegate of the interaction gesture recognizer in order to influence its behavior, such as preventing popup interaction when the user is interacting with other controls or views inside the popup content.

**Note:** If you disable the gesture recognizer after opening the popup, you must monitor the state of the popup and reenable the gesture recognizer once closed by the user or through code. Instead, consider implementing the gesture recognizer's delegate and providing custom logic to disable the interaction.

#### Full Right-to-Left Support

The framework has full right-to-left support.

<img src="./Supplements/rtl_english.png" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/rtl_hebrew.png" width="360"/>

By default, the popup bar will follow the system's user interface layout direction, but will preserve the bar button items' order.
To customize this behavior, modify the popup bar's ```semanticContentAttribute``` and ```barItemsSemanticContentAttribute``` properties.

### Customization

Customization can be achieved through the ```LNPopupBar```, ```LNPopupContentView``` and ```LNPopupCustomBarViewController``` classes.

#### Popup Bar Customization

```LNPopupBar``` exposes API to customize the default popup bar's appearance, either through `UIAppearance` API or directly on specific popup bar objects.

```swift
let appearanceProxy = LNPopupBar.appearance(whenContainedInInstancesOf: [UINavigationController.self])
appearanceProxy.titleTextAttributes = [.font: UIFont(name: "Chalkduster", size: 14)!, .foregroundColor: UIColor.yellow]
appearanceProxy.subtitleTextAttributes = [.font: UIFont(name: "Chalkduster", size: 12)!, .foregroundColor: UIColor.green]
appearanceProxy.backgroundStyle = .systemChromeMaterialDark
appearanceProxy.tintColor = .yellow
```

<img src="./Supplements/modern_custom.png" width="360"/> <img src="./Supplements/custom1.png" width="360"/>

#### Custom Popup Bars

The framework supports implementing custom popup bars.

<img src="./Supplements/custom_bar.png" width="360"/>

To implement a custom popup bar, subclass `LNPopupCustomBarViewController`.

In your `LNPopupCustomBarViewController` subclass, build your popup bar's view hierarchy and set the controller's `preferredContentSize` property with the preferred popup bar height. Override any of the `wantsDefaultTapGestureRecognizer`, `wantsDefaultPanGestureRecognizer` and/or `wantsDefaultHighlightGestureRecognizer` properties to disable the default gesture recognizers functionality in your custom popup bar.

In your subclass, implement the `popupItemDidUpdate()` method to be notified of updates to the popup content view controller's item, or when a new popup content view controller is presented (with a new popup item). You must call the `super` implementation of this method.

Finally, set the `customBarViewController` property of the popup bar object to an instance of your `LNPopupCustomBarViewController` subclass. This will change the bar style to `LNPopupBarStyle.custom`.

The included demo project includes two example custom popup bar scenes.

### Accessibility

The framework supports accessibility and will honor accessibility labels, hints and values. By default, the accessibility label of the popup bar is the title and subtitle provided by the popup item.

<img src="./Supplements/default_bar_accessibility_label.png"/>

To modify the accessibility label and hint of the popup bar, set the `accessibilityLabel` and `accessibilityHint` properties of the `LNPopupItem` object of the popup content view controller.

```swift
demoVC.popupItem.accessibilityLabel = NSLocalizedString("Custom popup bar accessibility label", comment: "")
demoVC.popupItem.accessibilityHint = NSLocalizedString("Custom popup bar accessibility hint", comment: "")
```

To add accessibility labels and hints to buttons, set the `accessibilityLabel` and `accessibilityHint` properties of the `UIBarButtonItem` objects.

```swift
let upNext = UIBarButtonItem(image: UIImage(named: "next"), style: .plain, target: self, action: #selector(nextItem))
upNext.accessibilityLabel = NSLocalizedString("Up Next", comment: "")
upNext.accessibilityHint = NSLocalizedString("Double tap to show up next list", comment: "")
```
To modify the accessibility label and hint of the popup close button, set the `accessibilityLabel` and `accessibilityHint` properties of the `LNPopupCloseButton` object of the popup container view controller.

```swift
tabBarController?.popupContentView.popupCloseButton.accessibilityLabel = NSLocalizedString("Custom popup close button accessibility label", comment: "")
tabBarController?.popupContentView.popupCloseButton.accessibilityHint = NSLocalizedString("Custom popup close button accessibility hint", comment: "")
```

To modify the accessibility label and value of the popup bar progress view, set the `accessibilityProgressLabel` and `accessibilityProgressValue` properties of the `LNPopupItem` object of the popup content view controller.

```swift
demoVC.popupItem.accessibilityImageLabel = NSLocalizedString("Custom image label", comment: "")
demoVC.popupItem.accessibilityProgressLabel = NSLocalizedString("Custom accessibility progress label", comment: "")
demoVC.popupItem.accessibilityProgressValue = "\(accessibilityDateComponentsFormatter.stringFromTimeInterval(NSTimeInterval(popupItem.progress) * totalTime)!) \(NSLocalizedString("of", comment: "")) \(accessibilityDateComponentsFormatter.stringFromTimeInterval(totalTime)!)"
```

## Notes

* Non-translucent bars are not supported and can cause visual artifacts or layout glitches. Apple has many problem with such bars themselves, and supporting those is not a priority for LNPopupController.
  * Instead, either use translucent bars, or set a background color to your bar instead of setting it as not translucent or set `extendedLayoutIncludesOpaqueBars` to true for contained controllers
* Manually hiding tab bars is not supported by the framework or by Apple. **Do not hide the tab bar using `tabBar.hidden = YES`**, this will lead to undefined behavior by the framework. 

## Acknowledgements

The framework uses:
* [MarqueeLabel](https://github.com/cbpowell/MarqueeLabel) Copyright (c) 2011-2020 Charles Powell

Additionally, the demo project uses:

* [LoremIpsum](https://github.com/lukaskubanek/LoremIpsum) Copyright (c) 2013 Lukas Kubanek
